Files added to Github, Commandline continues to be annoying. Github Desktop App is much easier to work with...

Code seems done, need to deploy. -- Figure out how to deploy on replit

Computer based servers continue to be a pain to deal with on windows and linux is as bit to much of a drastic jump for how custom my computer setup is. 

Being unable to deploy at all has made this whole project entirely more difficult than it needs to be, I dont understand why no one has just come up with a small dev enviroment that works natively? It seems like it would fix more than a few issues especially since PHP is literally the back end of the entire internet at this point. 

AI variable checking has and continues to be the greatest thing ever invented for making sure variables are conistant and my stupid self just doesnt add and s randomly on a variable. Saves me so much time bug hunting for syntax errors. 

-- Issues

Deployment is a pain, ive gone through 3 different platforms including the base server installed on my computer. 

Replit auto complete is nice but really inaccurate for variables 

Databases are a pain, at this point im sure that im going to have to create a database from scratch.... so that will be a fun 5 hours

Holy hell Deploying the database along side the docker image is a nightmare???
Its been over 5 hours and literally 15 revisions of finding out im not even running an sql server to not having the server link up at all
Its not good practice to be able to see the env variables but at this point I literally could care less, I really just need the bloody thing to work. Ive been at this for a week and it took me 10 hours to properly build the api-- when XAMPP was WORKING and 3 for a basic database............
Seriously though XAMPP is the actual worst, it just breaks half the time because of the nature of windows breaking ports... 

Abandoning the all in one idea, I have copped out to get the render sql easy deploy. 

turning to the local host I fixed xampp, again... im now just rushing to get all the functions working locally... If I have to redo the database when it goes online somehow so be it. 
Turns out I had another version of the project in the htapps looking folder and xampp was using that project instead of the one I was actively changing, there goes 6+ hours of work and troubleshooting to something stupid... 

This project has been a nightmare from start to finishish... I start on replit for 3 days getting the base of the code down, have to switch to xampp, find out i have 2 versions of it running at the same time stopping me from running the server. I build the server input the variables and tables into the database and build everything around that. It works, fantastic I then move on to moving the docker container online expecting it to be easy, follow the tutorial by the teacher for render and get everything moving along... 4 days later and literal hours of pouring through documentation a docker container of mysql later I have to abandon literally everything to attempt to get it working with postgres only to find out just about all of my code is worthless for it... I spent 9 hours getting that to link up correctly all env variables found and working, no real examples of documentation for that just a blind singlemindedness. It is now the day this thing is due, I abandon render because I still cant get the code to sync up correctly and move to digital ocean, with the power of a credit card I now have a working mysql server... except I now have to rebuild the entire database from scratch because the dump file isnt correctly formatted for some reason, no problem I think ill just get another one only to find out that no it wasnt anything I did it just doesnt like the way its formatted. I salvage the situation and rush to settup the classes and use the parts of the dump files from the previous server to input the quotes compatable one by one. I have now stopped documenting the progress because its 4 hours before this thing needs to be in. I start the server and it works but is throwning all errors and my code is now what mostly worthless. So after 4 hours I have 2 checkmarks a working index file, no idea if my delete create or update files still work, because they did LOCALLY but getting ANYTHING to work with these servers has been a living NIGHTMARE. So now it time to turn it in, and the check marks say I have a 7%, all because I didnt start soon enough, (I started last monday spring break was a good time? It was literally free tiime to focus) and spent literally a good 70% of my time futzing with stupid server side issues and pouring through incomplete documentation for what specifially the server wasnt telling me my code is missing. This whole experience was fun, until I needed to host something else on someone elses computer. At this point if I was to do this all over again I would have just hosted a local server on an old computer as a VM and done it like that... God I hope I never have to experience something like this again, and hope node is nothing at all like how much of a pain this was. I had autocomplete ther power of chatgpt helping fill in what I was missing online documentation and one semester of backend dev and I have come to the conclusion that I am both much better with front end stuff (I have literally never touched a database file before this class), html python, and c++... Good god I hope node is easier to use, having to strip everything and then transfer it to js because the code doesnt like what the server has and the server is fighting code designed for localhost has been exaughtsing. Overall I think server based code passed 3 maybe 4 tests giving me either a solid 5% or 7%, which SUCKS because it wasnt for lack of trying... Its not like I even started late either... I guess now I go do the exam and hope that offsets what an awful grade im going to get... 